Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni. Greetings to all fellow practitioners. Today, I, Yen, am here
with a question from a friend: "
Hello, Ms. Yen. I am
new to Buddhist practice. The
Buddha's Enlightenment Day is coming up, and I am unclear about its
meaning and importance
for Buddhists. I would greatly
appreciate your explanation so I can understand
more about this day. Thank you, Ms. Yen." Dear fellow
practitioners, for Buddhist
disciples,
the days of the Buddha's birth, his renunciation, his enlightenment, and his passing into
Nirvana are days that
Buddhist disciples often remember.
Remembering these four days
of the Buddha's life makes
one's mind more diligent. The first benefit
is that it makes one's mind
more diligent. For
those with the
ideal of liberation, and for those who
aspire to benefit sentient beings, the
Buddha's enlightenment is a milestone, an
affirmation that an
ordinary person, if they practice diligently, will achieve enlightenment.  The Buddha's teachings
yielded results, just like the
Buddha himself, which is an incredibly significant achievement.
Dear esteemed fellow practitioners,
when people live in this world and are faced with uncertainty, they
wonder if their actions will yield
results, or where their actions will lead.
These are the questions that cause
everyone to feel
uncertain. They wonder, "
Where will my actions lead?" They wonder, "Will my actions
reach their goal?" These are the
vague questions, dear fellow practitioners. So,
for a Buddhist disciple, the day of the
Buddha's enlightenment resolves all
these vague thoughts.
With the aspiration to cultivate
liberation, one becomes more enthusiastic and diligent.
The Buddha has already attained Buddhahood,
so we too will attain Buddhahood. It is
impossible not to attain Buddhahood if
we diligently practice the
Buddha's
teachings, which have merit, eliminate greed, hatred, and delusion, and have the
aspiration to attain Buddhahood.
Therefore, on this day...  Recalling the
Buddha's
enlightenment, all the celebrations of the Buddha's
enlightenment bring to the
Buddha's disciples such diligence and strength. It's
like we're climbing a step, dear fellow practitioners. Once we step onto this step, we have the opportunity
to step onto another, and once we step onto
that step, we have the opportunity to step onto the
next. Therefore, our mind,
our cultivation, is
generated by the merit of our practice.
Today's practice gives rise
to the conditions for tomorrow, giving rise to
the thoughts and understanding of the
next day. Therefore, these encouraging conditions are
indispensable,
dear fellow practitioners; they must be continuous.
Without these encouraging conditions,
we will
regress. We can sit and think for a
while, for example, this year is the same. Just think for a
while, and the Buddha also attained Buddhahood.
So we too can cultivate to become Buddhas.
That's a thought that arises,
but...  Before all the worries and
anxieties of
life for those who remain in the world, and even for those who have renounced the world
and live among their fellow monks, there are so
many conflicts that make
one very tired, my dear fellow
practitioners. Because the starting point
of the
human mind is the ordinary mind—greedy, angry, envious, jealous—
to wear down that mind,
there must be contact between the
six senses and the six objects of perception.
At that time, the objects of perception are all human minds interacting
with other human minds.
When we interact like that, it's easy to
forget our ideals,
forget
our initial intentions, and we can't
generate any
more effort. At
that time, we become discouraged, we may chase after fame,
wealth, and the five desires.
But when we commemorate the
Buddha's enlightenment, we ask, "He
achieved enlightenment, so why can't we strive to
achieve enlightenment ourselves?" Each of
these causes and conditions arises differently in each
person, creating a different kind of karmic connection.
Perhaps this year we haven't been able to
cultivate that aspiration, that
urge, but because we diligently
practice, perhaps the precepts of a lay person,
perhaps the precepts of a monastic, we still have
n't achieved
that diligence. This year we still haven't achieved
that diligence, but we diligently observe the
precepts, the precepts that we might
repeatedly violate during
the process of observing them.
Or perhaps we become lax,
like Yen always says, sometimes we become lax in
fulfilling our vows or promises. Someone asks us for a little help, we agree, and then we say, 'Yes, I'll
help you tonight,' but then we become lax. If we
don't help, we
just shrug it off, 'I'll help tomorrow.' Then tomorrow, when
something happens, we forget about it. The next
day, we suddenly remember and
say, 'Oh, I'm busy right now.'
That's being lazy, dear friends.
Laziness, laxity, harms
our aspirations, but at that time...  There is nothing to
encourage laziness, and that laziness will continue for a long time,
becoming a habit of breaking promises. This habit of breaking
promises brings
about negative consequences,
and these negative consequences
create further
obstacles in fulfilling the next promise. Thus,
the old obstacles are not removed, and new ones are created.
Therefore, we cannot progress
because we lack the encouragement. So, the
day the Buddha attained
enlightenment is the
day we know he attained
enlightenment. The Buddha meditated for 49 days, and he
showed us the
path to practice, from lower to
higher levels, to develop such a mindset. We then make
the determination to reflect
on ourselves and strive harder. Therefore, the
commemoration of the Buddha's
enlightenment is extremely beneficial and
valuable for the liberation from suffering
of every
sentient being—that is, for Buddhists. As for those who are
not Buddhist, who follow
other religions, or who have not chosen a religion,
if...  We celebrate the
day of the Buddha's enlightenment with a
big commemoration, either through meditation or a
festival, but it's different from the usual. It attracts attention,
and people will
ask a very simple question, for example,
a small question like, "
Who is
this Buddha? Why are these people so obsessed with him?"
So, who is asking the question? They are the
ones who ask it, and
their knowledge is recorded, and in many future lives,
they themselves must answer that question. Then
they will enter the ocean of Buddhist teachings,
a very distant karmic connection, not close,
but it's possible for some to
get closer. Then some people get annoyed, they go
online and
see people commemorating this place, commemorating that place, and they see what kind of
delusion it is, and they want to confront it. So they
read and research, about enlightenment, what kind of enlightenment, what kind of
fruition, and they
find the Four Noble Truths and the Eightfold Path
interesting.  Then,
I realized that even outside of that "Hmm, there
really is cause and effect," that's the benefit,
dear fellow practitioners. So don't worry
about people cursing
us; they only need to curse to ask a
question, and that's extremely valuable
because every sentient being has the nature to
ask and answer
questions. If you haven't asked a question, you haven't answered. Let me give you an example: when
we go to school, we are tested by
answering questions, and the
questioner is the teacher, and
we have the responsibility to answer. But when
we ask a question,
we consciously seek the answer ourselves, dear fellow
practitioners. Seeking it
ourselves means we are doing the
teacher's job – asking the question, and
our job is to answer. So, the karmic
connection is extremely auspicious, dear fellow
practitioners. Extremely auspicious! Therefore, I
sincerely hope that all temples and
all places, depending on the karmic connection of the
sentient beings there, will organize a
celebration commemorating the day the Buddha attained
enlightenment.  All
Buddhist centers, if they can organize something, should
organize it.
If it has influence, then it's fine. But if it's
only for five Buddhists, then it's only for those five
Buddhists who know about it. In that case, it's
impossible to organize it. But
remember, we practice according to the
temple's teachings.
When we can organize something like that, it's
truly very beneficial. For example, if
we see that
people in our village like festivals,
we can organize it in the way our village
likes, with prayers and
supplications. We can rely on the practice of prayers and supplications
to organize it, as long as it creates an opportunity to
explain who the Buddha is,
what the Buddha achieved, and what
benefits that brings to us, to sentient beings,
and whether people should practice it
or not, and
how to practice it. That's how we create an opportunity to reach
sentient beings. As for
places where there are already
many practitioners, organizing
those practice sessions benefits everyone: the
organizers, the participants, and even those
outside who don't know about
Buddhism – that's the benefit.  The
great aspiration is also part of the Vow of Enlightenment, which
is to attain Buddhahood above and to save
sentient beings below, sowing the
seeds of understanding the truth for them, freeing them from the
question "Why am I suffering so much?", abandoning the
resentment of blaming God, this or that deity, or this or that being for
not loving me, and
asking "Please, Lord, have mercy on me."
This is hopeless begging, dear fellow practitioners.
Those who attain Buddhahood, like Prince Siddhartha,
arrive at the truth
of the workings of cause and
effect for each sentient being. This truth, as I
often use the
example
of the scientist Louis, who discovered the
law of universal gravitation,
is the truth. The truth is that all things are attracted to each other. The truth
that the Buddha
attained is that each sentient being is
governed by cause and effect,
due to their own actions. The
cause is what we say first, and the
effect is what we achieve later. If we think,
speak, or do unwholesome things, we
will suffer as a result. So, what
we...
Accessing the
true nature of the doctrine of karma requires a certain karmic connection.
We must have
asked ourselves, "Who is the Buddha?" We must
ask, "Who is the Buddha?" before we can
approach him. We might criticize, slander,
or, if we have good karma, we might
hear about him, find him interesting, and then seek to
understand him. So, hearing about
him, finding him interesting, then investigating, slandering him,
asking questions—all of these lead sentient beings to the
truth of liberation, to the
truth. All of this brings
benefit to you, dear friends. Therefore,
the person who performs meritorious deeds on
this Buddha's birthday celebration is also
within the Bodhi mind. The
intention is to help sentient
beings escape
delusion by having a little
connection with the Buddha. A
connection with the Buddha will also
benefit sentient beings. The
person who performs meritorious deeds on this
Buddha's enlightenment anniversary—
that is the merit they hope for.
To be enlightened, others will know the
truth about their suffering, the
causes of their suffering, and how to
practice what to
think, say, and do to achieve
the result of ending suffering, to reach
absolute happiness without any
suffering left.
This is a great merit, dear fellow
practitioners. The merit is to help others
eliminate greed, hatred, and delusion. That is the aspiration.
As for the practice of true enlightenment, during
the holidays or commemorative events
for the
Buddha's enlightenment, we should also cultivate
our minds according to the six precepts of respect and reverence when performing our
duties together, so that our minds
become pure, less greedy and less angry,
and dedicate this merit to achieving
Buddhahood. This is a
very great merit, a
very great blessing that we, as
Buddhists, can create during the
commemorative events of the Buddha's enlightenment. The
merit of this ceremony has two parts: the
merit of the ceremony itself, that is, the ceremony itself.  The "
Sowing of Karma" ceremony creates opportunities for all
sentient beings,
and those who perform this ceremony, when they
adjust their minds in the right direction,
will receive immense merit and blessings.
This merit cannot be counted or measured;
if calculated over
countless lifetimes, it will multiply exponentially.
We sow the seeds of karma for others, and
they, through that, enter the Buddha's path,
achieve enlightenment, and then sow the seeds for
others. Thus, we accumulate
immense merit, right? It's incredibly
beneficial! Therefore, I wish all of you,
dear fellow practitioners, to fulfill your
duties on this
day commemorating the Buddha's enlightenment, to accumulate
much merit, to overcome greed and anger, to
cultivate the Six Harmonies,
and to receive
immense merit, blessings, and wisdom. Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni. [Music] [Applause] [Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
Ni y